This story is a work of fiction. The names of all of the characters, organizations, and so on
are imaginary. It also bears no connection to any specific real-life events.
I'm going to the Jade Pavilion.
Yes.
Passed away?
Concubine Jin... I see.
I have been told it was food poisoning.
The word just came in.
I heard she had been bedridden
for about a year now.
Master Jinshi is here.
Let him in.
Episode 27: Corpse Fungus
Thank you in advance.
Got it.
I should let her concentrate.
A court lady is missing?
Yes. Her name is Tao.
She was a good girl, hard worker.
Her tenure was almost up, and she
was scheduled to get married soon.
Marriage?
I heard she was given a hairpin
at the garden party.
And it was from an up-and-coming bureaucrat.
The matron wanted her to stay, though.
Huh...
So, such a capable court lady goes
missing without even saying goodbye.
Do you have any idea where she went?
Not at all, unfortunately.
That said, this type of thing isn't unheard of.
A lot of the women here
have interpersonal concerns.
I understand.
I sometimes forget,
but this is the rear palace,
a flower garden packed with two thousand women.
Oh? Is that so?
An outdoor tea party today.
I guess if she stayed inside,
people would suspect she's pregnant.
She's paying attention
to the venue and her attire,
but I'm sure some have noticed by now.
The problem is, does that someone
have good intentions, or bad?
Oh, you're back.
Come here, Maomao.
How may I be of service?
To him, actually.
Well, let's move elsewhere.
I don't mind. Why don't you talk here?
No, I mustn't spend too much time
with the emperor's beloved concubine.
Besides, well...
Oh.
Lady Gyokuyou, please.
Boo.
So, what did you need?
You've heard that the emperor is
handing out novels to the concubines, right?
Yes. After the concubines read them,
they're being read by their ladies-in-waiting.
And also to the other court ladies around them.
Copies are being made, and it's prompting
some to learn to read and write.
I see.
This is still early in the planning phase,
but I was thinking of
building something like this.
I think it's called a penmanship
school in the populace.
A school for servant girls.
I knew he was up to something,
but he acts faster than I thought.
I think it's a good idea.
What happened to your signature stare?!
Are you unwell?!
Why are you reacting that way?
Well, it's somewhat unsettling.
Masochist.
So, what do you think?
There are already those who are trying
to learn, so I think it's a good idea.
It would help some find new jobs
after their tenure is up, too.
I see.
But...
Tell me.
The southern courtyard is a convenient spot
for delivering goods and so on,
but it's close to the main gate.
It's a popular spot for high and
mid-ranked concubines to gather.
Some of them are very prideful.
They may not be too pleased by
the idea of educating the servants.
We might have to build it on the north side.
Yes. I've heard the north side
has not been maintained well,
and there are several
abandoned buildings there.
Renovating those should be more than enough.
Also, you should call it vocational training.
You can gather more people by
framing it as a way to earn a living.
Is that how it works?
An occasional snack might be good, too.
Only occasional?
Yes. Nobody gets addicted to
a gamble that pays off every time.
Is that so?
His head's in the right place
but he doesn't think things through,
probably because of
his high-class upbringing.
I guess he asks me because
he's aware of that much.
It's all just my personal opinion.
Is that all?
Oh, and one more thing.
Do you know much about mushrooms?
Well, they're used for both food
and medicine, so yes, somewhat.
This time of year, some court ladies
forage for mushrooms without
permission and get food poisoning.
I guess there are a few gluttons anywhere.
Indeed. There once was someone eating
matsutake with the doctor at the clinic.
I hear the fruits from the orchard
often go missing, too.
Those aren't poisonous mushrooms.
And I was just lightly thinning the orchards.
So, I'd like for you to find and dispose
of any that might get mistakenly eaten.
Also, take note of what types
of poisonous mushrooms you find.
I'm going to ask you to take a break
from all other Jade Pavilion tasks,
other than tasting.
I see.
That sounds like something
to explain in front of Lady Gyokuyou.
What's that look he keeps giving me?
I'm counting on you.
Understood.
There might be something going on...
But it sounds fun, regardless.
So, where should I go...?
The gardens, orchards, pine trees...
There's many places where
mushrooms can grow.
It's prime mushroom season, too.
If court ladies are foraging in secret,
I can probably skip places with lots of
people and the south side in general.
In that case...
North it is.
Hmm? What's that smell?
It stings a little...
Is this the weird smell
Shisui mentioned before?
Maybe the leaking sewage
is feeding the mushrooms.
I'm back.
Hey, welcome back—whoa!
Don't come in like that. You're nasty!
Nasty...
Maomao, you smell strange.
What have you been up to all day?
It was such a fulfilling day.
I even got some medicinal mushrooms.
I told him they're all poisonous,
so not even that quack would eat it.
Are they really poisonous? Maybe if
I tried one, I could tell...
Hurry and get changed.
Lady Gyokuyou's dinner is soon.
Yes.
My apologies for being late.
Sorry we had to rush you.
It's fine.
A black string on their wrists...
I'm going out after dinner.
Please accompany me.
Understood.
So, someone noble passed away
within the rear palace...
She was a concubine named Jin,
an upper-middle-rank concubine,
and daughter of a high-ranking official.
She's been sick for the past year,
and was always in her room.
Apparently, she got food poisoning
and never recovered.
It wasn't like the emperor was visiting her.
She should have gone home.
It's rare for you to speak
of someone that way.
Concubine Jin was a little...
difficult, personality-wise.
She was very jealous of the other
concubines and court ladies.
She would attack them verbally, sometimes
even physically if they were lower class.
And that was when Lady Gyokuyou was poisoned,
while she was pregnant with the princess.
Of course, she didn't openly attack
the high-ranking concubines.
But given her personality, Master Jinshi
had to at least go and make an inquiry.
However...
Do you have any evidence?
So, it remained a suspicion only.
I heard there was a lot of turmoil internally,
and even her ladies-in-waiting
had a rough time.
To be honest, I'm a bit relieved
that this happened.
If something were to happen
to Lady Gyokuyou again...
I guess that's Lady Hongniang's honest take.
Hmm?
Apparently, she got food poisoning
and never recovered.
Also, take note of what types
of poisonous mushrooms you find.
Why did Master Jinshi ask me
to investigate mushrooms?
Why did he avoid discussing it at the Jade
Pavilion, in Lady Gyokuyou's presence?
It can only be because he's suspicious
of the people at the Jade Pavilion.
That one of us killed Concubine Jin
with a poison mushroom.
I thought he was perhaps a bit
too partial to Lady Gyokuyou,
but he's actually treating
everyone quite fairly, after all.
I guess if his line of thinking was
made obvious, it would affect trust.
Anyway, Lady Gyokuyou can't be the culprit.
Poisoning is way too much trouble,
and there are many easier ways
to oust a middle-rank concubine.
The other ladies-in-waiting aren't built
for that kind of underhanded work.
So, the prime suspect is...
Oh, me.
If he was probing my reaction while fronting
it as a request to investigate mushrooms,
I'm quite impressed, actually.
Not at all disappointed.
Please.
Hmm? Is she Concubine Jin's lady-in-waiting?
Did she get a rash from something?
Please.
But, that inflammation...
If I'd at least been able to hear what her
symptoms were before she passed...
Concubine Son! Please stop!
You got what you deserved!
The inflammation on her face...
Do you know much about mushrooms?
...and even her ladies-in-waiting
had a rough time.
Ah. I see it now.
So that's what Master Jinshi
was trying to find.
I was told the woman who
caused a scene last night
is a low-ranking concubine
named Concubine Son.
She's from a wealthy merchant family,
and had a great personality.
The emperor even visited
her from time to time.
However, almost exactly two years ago...
Why... Why is this happening?!
She contracted a mysterious illness,
and talks were raised
to remove her as a concubine.
But even if she went home,
she wouldn't be able to marry.
She was allowed to stay in the rear palace,
likely out of compassion by the emperor.
So then, why did she behave
that way at Concubine Jin's funeral?
Simple. She believed Concubine Jin
was to blame for her illness.
Found it.
Master Jinshi, please wear this.
Quite the precaution.
Yes, it's extremely poisonous.
This... Where did you find it?
In the forest on the north side.
The area wasn't maintained,
creating probably the best
environment for this mushroom.
It's quite rare, and extremely dangerous.
Ingesting only a piece is lethal, and it
can cause harm just by touch—
Please don't move any closer.
You'll end up like Concubines
Jin and Son, like this.
I came across the same
mushroom once in the past,
when I was foraging for herbs with my dad.
You touched it?
Yes. I washed it immediately,
but this is the result.
Are there more scars underneath those bandages?
No, the other ones are through
experiments I did on myself.
Wait, what experiments?
My hobby.
What do you mean, your hobby?!
I guess I never showed him until now.
Anyway, that's not important at all.
Really?
Concubine Jin's body was covered with
rashes, and she had lost a lot of hair.
Master Jinshi, were you looking for
where this poison came from?
She's sharp, as always.
Two years ago, Concubine Son
suddenly contracted a mysterious illness,
and poison was suspected as the cause.
The culprit was rumored to be...
Concubine Jin.
Yes. But we couldn't definitively
prove that it was her.
Then, one year ago, the same symptoms
appeared on Concubine Jin as well.
She must have tried to use the same poison
on someone and touched it by mistake.
From then on, Concubine Jin
became depressed,
like she was a different person.
I went to see her at least once a month,
but she could barely even speak.
She was a very proud woman.
Unable to take it anymore,
she took poison to commit suicide.
That's the testimony of the women
that served her, anyway.
It does make sense as a story. But...
Concubine Jin died from eating
the poison mushroom, right?
Right.
That doesn't make sense.
What do you mean?
This mushroom does cause stomachaches,
vomiting, and paralysis when eaten.
It would cause inflammation
inside the mouth,
but I've never heard of it spreading
to the rest of the face.
Really?
Yes. The inflammation on
her face appeared fairly new.
As if someone directly rubbed
the poisonous mushroom on her face.
Meanwhile, her hands were quite clean.
The inflammation was on...
If you have something to say, say it.
Can you give me a few days?
Also, I'll need a few eunuchs who can keep
a secret and do some physical labor.
I can't say for certain.
Do it anyway.
I guess framing it as an order
makes it easier for me.
Understood.
I wonder what Xiaomao is trying to figure out?
I don't know, either. But...
When the apothecary is like that, she's just
looking for one final piece of evidence.
We're here.
Mushrooms...
Can you dig here?
Understood.
This smell...
So, this is your evidence.
I didn't think I would find it
on the first try, though.
They confirmed that the body
was indeed Concubine Jin.
Her emblems were on the accessories she wore.
I don't know if it was
a murder or an accident,
but she must have died a year ago.
Right around when she fell ill?
Yes. The real Concubine Jin
was buried in the forest,
and an impostor took her place.
So, the body at the funeral was...
Have you heard about the missing court lady?
A woman named Tao,
who disappeared before her marriage.
Don't you think she looks like Concubine Jin?
I asked around, and apparently,
even their builds were similar.
By covering up her face,
nobody would be able to tell,
except maybe her immediate servants.
It wouldn't have been difficult
to trick a monthly visitor.
So, this Tao woman was conspiring
with Concubine Jin's ladies-in-waiting?
I suspect so, though I don't know any details.
I have some personal conjectures, of course.
It was probably triggered by jealousy.
Concubine Jin probably didn't enjoy the fact
that a court lady who
looked like her found love.
In her case, she couldn't even
get a visit from the emperor.
Tao was, indeed, regularly abused.
Then perhaps there was an argument.
An accident... or some incident,
that ended in Concubine Jin's death.
The ladies-in-waiting, perhaps out of
self-preservation and sympathy for Tao,
suggested they cover up
Concubine Jin's death.
Tao couldn't decline, of course.
But as her marriage talks
got increasingly serious,
keeping up the impostor act
became too difficult.
Enough of that. The higher-ups can
make up whatever motives they want.
But how did you find out
where the body was buried?
There was evidence left behind.
Evidence?
Mushrooms!
The mushrooms in the area
are all those that like to grow
on animal carcasses and excrement!
No wonder there was
that peculiar, rotting smell there!
Who would have thought I was enjoying
mushroom hunting over a corpse!
What are you going to do with the mushrooms?
These are really,
super-interesting mushrooms.
Mushrooms that grow on corpses?
Well, they don't grow directly on
corpses, like the caterpillar fungus...
B-Besides, if they did, they'd be
called corpse fungi instead—
Confiscate them!
It's just innocent curiosity...
A mushroom that grows on a corpse...
If such a thing existed,
what would it look like,
and what effects would it have?
Next Time
Next time: "Mirrors."
Episode 28: Mirrors